---
layout: post
type: event
title: "Workshop at National Robotarium on Skills Training for Care Workforces in Relation to Robotic Technology"
---

This webinar will take place on 12:00 BST on 25 October 2021, presented on behalf of the Institution of Mechanical Engineering (IMechE), Mechatronics, Informatics and Control Group. Register for the event [here](https://events.imeche.org/ViewEvent?e=7424).

## Abstract
The EPSRC NetworkPlus [EMERGENCE](https://www.emergencerobotics.net/) and the [Empowering Future Care Workforces project](https://www.tas.ac.uk/research-projects-2022-23/empowering-future-care-workforces/) will run a joint workshop from the National Robotarium, Heriot-Watt University's campus in Edinburgh, on November 15th, between 10AM and 12PM.

It will be also possible to join the workshop online, with Microsoft Teams.

The two projects aim to understand how health and social care professionals can benefit from using assistive robotics on their own terms. Empowering health and social care professionals through digital technologies has long been a goal in health and care policy. As governments invest in post-pandemic digital transformation, ensuring workers are empowered and not excluded by technology is more urgent than ever.

The attendees of the workshop will:
* Learn and discuss about requirements for configuring, verifying and validating systems to best match the needs of staff in dynamic care contexts.
* Contribute to identify gaps in clinical and engineering education to enable healthcare technology skills development, and scope continuing professional development needs.

The analysis from this and further workshops will generate insights about the kinds of policy support and interdisciplinary research infrastructure needed for new forms of human-robot collaboration in caring environments during and after digital transformation.

Health and social care professionals, family carers and anyone from institutional organisations and especially anyone involved in CPD would be particularly welcome. 

If you are interested in taking part, please e-mail Dr. Mauro Dragone, <a href="mailto:m.dragone@hw.ac.uk">m.dragone@hw.ac.uk</a>.