---
layout: post
type: vacancy
title: "KTP Associate for Robotic Telepresence in the Care Sector"
---

Blackwood Homes &amp; Care and Heriot-Watt are seeking a graduate with a strong background in software engineering skills, including robot software frameworks, conversational AI and web-based programming and an interest in health and social care. Graduates from Computer Science, or other relevant disciplines are encouraged to apply.

The KTP associate will lead development of a telepresence robotic system fully integrated with Blackwood CleverCogs digital telecare system. This will provide access to CleverCogs communication channels by both tenants and care staff in a wider variety of emergency scenarios. It will allow situations to be triaged remotely and the appropriate responses actioned, leading to a more effective, cost-efficient  and therefore scalable service.

Incorporating a fully mobile and interactive robot into Blackwood’s digital telecare system will enable other adaptable and bespoke robotic applications to be developed for a variety of applications across the Blackwood’s, care services and housing provision. This will provide Blackwood’s customers with increased choice and control, increased independence all leading to and supporting increased health and well-being

While being an employee of Heriot-Watt University, the associate will be based at Blackwood’s Edinburgh office premises located in the Heriot-Watt Research Park. The associate will have access to all the university facilities (computing, laboratory facilities, office space, training programmes etc.) available to regular university employees. In addition, the candidate will also have access to Innovate UK’s contacts and training programmes including business administration focussed training programmes.

## How to Apply

Applications must be submitted by midnight UK time on the **22nd of May 2022**.

Please must submit via the Heriot-Watt on-line recruitment system:
1. Cover letter describing their interest and suitability for the post
2. Full CV

For informal discussions about the position, please contact Dr. Mauro Dragone at Heriot-Watt, [m.dragone@hw.ac.uk](mailto:m.dragone@hw.ac.uk).

<button name="button" onclick="window.location.href='https://enzj.fa.em3.oraclecloud.com/hcmUI/CandidateExperience/en/sites/CX/job/2059/?utm_medium=jobshare';">Click for More Information / Apply via Heriot-Watt University Careers</button>