---
layout: post
type: news
icon: newspaper-o
image: "/img/logos/emergence.png" 
image_style: "max-height: 100px;"
image_link: "/blog/2022/09/06/News.html"
title: "EMERGENCE Healthcare Technologies Network+ Robotics for Frailty Challenge"
---

With a focus on tackling frailty and facilitating the emergence of healthcare robots from labs into service, the EPSRC EMERGENCE Healthcare Technologies NetworkPlus project has been set up to foster and facilitate innovative research and development of healthcare robotic solutions so that they can be realised as pragmatic and sustainable, providing personalised, affordable and inclusive health and social care in the community.

We have been running workshops with people with lived experience of frailty, and our clinical and care-provider partners, to gain a deeper understanding of the current health and social care challenges associated with assessing and managing the care of people with lived experience of frailty in the community.

Our work so far has helped to highlight some of the actionable requirements that we hope will inspire novel research; enabling engineers to develop appropriate healthcare robotics solutions. Having completed this first phase of our work we are poised to launch our call for pilots.

As part of this we are organising this public facing hybrid event (in person at the Jubilee Campus and online) on Wednesday 28th September 2022 13:00-16:00.

You can find more information about our network on our [website]( https://www.emergencerobotics.net/).

At this event you will have an opportunity to hear about the findings from our work so far and our upcoming funding call from the project team, as well as challenges and barriers to designing and deploying robotics technologies from invited experts on ageing-related research and robotics.

You can view the event schedule [here](https://www.emergencerobotics.net/events/robotics-for-frailty-challenge)

This event is organised as part of the EPSRC Emergence Network led by the University of Nottingham, in collaboration with the University of Sheffield, Sheffield Hallam University, University of Hertfordshire and Heriot-Watt University.

### Event Organisers:
- Praminda Caleb-Solly
- Rebekah Moore-
- Mark Hawley
- Stephen Potter
- Alessandro Di Nuovo
- Farshid Amirabdollahian
- Mauro Dragone

Refreshments and snacks will be provided.

<button name="button" onclick="window.location.href='https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/emergence-healthcare-technologies-network-robotics-for-frailty-challenge-tickets-407340244637';">Click to Register (via Eventbrite)</button>